---
layout: post
title: Why I'm Building .QASM
---
Originally, my research was going to be focused on determining the efficiency of various optimization strategies in the context of quantum computing. However, this research relied on a high-level quantum programming language and a compiler in which I could manipulate. The only real languages that fit this methodology are Microsoft's Q# and the LLVM based Scaffold. Almost immediately I began to run into issues. LLVM is an extremely large and complicated software which is not suited to the manipulations I have intending to do as compiler optimization passes can be scheduled and repeated several times making timing each optimization a challenging task. Microsoft's [Q# compiler](https://github.com/microsoft/qsharp-compiler.git) was more promising this this regard given that the compiler optimization passes all occurred linearly. However I encountered difficulties building the project from source and much of Microsoft's online documentation was lacking in detail or completely unavailable. 

With that in mind, a slight shift in topic was required. I decided to focus on the problem of quantum instruction scheduling as it is still an open problem with various scheduling strategies offering different benefits. With this I decided to write my own software which which I could test various different methods of instruction scheduling. I will be using C# as it is the language I am most familiar with.

I started by writing out several important nouns and the relations between them. All quantum computers execute quantum circuits which are a representation of quantum operations being applied to qubits over time. However it does not take into account how long each operation is, just the relative order of the operations and which qubits are used. We could say that quantum circuits represent a very general schedule which can be extended for more advanced scheduling. 

To start with, I began to take these topics and convert them to C# data structures. A quantum circuit is composed of a collection of classical and quantum bits as well as containing a schedule that can apply quantum operations in some well defined order to the circuit. Each schedule is composed of multiple scheduled events which can be scheduled according to their running time as well as other dependent operations.